Relatively little is known about nearshore benthic habitat types and associated marine benthic invertebrate and algal communities along the BC coast, as DFO is focused mainly on species of commercial interest. Benthic habitat types and community composition of the nearshore region are large data gaps that need to be addressed to support marine use planning initiatives. In the absence of an empirical representation for data-poor species, there is a need to have a proxy representing areas of similar environmental conditions to use as a framework to collate existing information on the distribution of kelp and other nearshore benthic species. 

This project delivers an approach, implemented in R scripts, to use the k-means unsupervised clustering algorithm to generate clusters representing areas of common environmental conditions from existing spatial layers. Deliverables include a variety of spatial clusters for the Queen Charlotte Strait (QCS) ecoregion, and well-documented R scripts to create the layers. The scripts include an RMarkdown file which produces a PDF report of the results. This allows for efficient comparisons of different cluster formulations. Comparisons and judgements are an essential part of the process, as results vary with different data sets, their distribution, and the number of clusters requested.

The clustering scripts rely on TIF files provided by the Marine Spatial Ecology & Analysis (MSEA) section. The code assumes the TIFs are in the same projection, but imposes a common extent and resolutionto ensure all inputs have identical spatial configurations. 
